Consider a database workstation server that is composed
of a single CPU and two disks, a fast disk and a slow disk. Users remotely login
to the server, perform some database transactions, and logout. Because of the
limited power of the workstation, at most two users are allowed to be logged onto
the system at any one time. However, the demand for the system is sufficiently
high so that it may be assumed that exactly two users are logged onto the system
at all times. That is, as soon as one user completes the requested transactions
and exits the system, another eager user logs on and effectively picks up where the
departed user left off and initiates further database transactions. Each transaction
alternates between using the CPU and using a disk. The particular disk used
depends on the transaction, since different transactions access different files, and
different files are resident on different disks. Suppose that the “typical” transaction
(1) requires an average of 10 sec of CPU time, (2) is equally likely to access files
on the fast disk as the slow disk, (3) requires an average of 20 sec of fast disk time
if a file on the fast disk is accessed, and (4) requires an average of 30 sec of slow
disk time if a file on the slow disk is accessed. What is the current performance of
the system? How much would performance be improved if code for transaction
handling by the CPU were rewritten to execute 33% faster? How much would
performance be improved if the slow disk were replaced by a second fast disk?
What is the optimal file placement across the two disks?